Malaria Image Classification with CNN
This project consists of a Jupyter notebook that implements a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to classify cell images into two categories: Infected (Parasitized) and Uninfected. The goal is to create a tool capable of assisting in malaria detection through microscopic image analysis.​

Description
The code performs the entire computer vision project pipeline:

Exploratory Analysis: Loading and visualizing images and their dimensions.

Preprocessing: Organizing directories and resizing images to (130, 130, 3).

Data Augmentation: Using ImageDataGenerator to increase training data variability (rotation, zoom, flip, etc.).

Model Construction: Defining a sequential CNN architecture.

Training: Training the model with Early Stopping to avoid overfitting.

Evaluation: Generating performance metrics (Classification Report and Confusion Matrix).

Prediction: Testing the model with an individual image.​

Dataset
The data used was obtained from the official NIH (National Library of Medicine) malaria datasets repository:

Source: https://ceb.nlm.nih.gov/repositories/malaria-datasets

Structure: The notebook expects data organized in train and test folders, separated by class (parasitized and uninfected).​

🛠 Technologies and Libraries
The project was developed in Python using the following main libraries:

TensorFlow/Keras: For building and training the neural network.

NumPy & Pandas: Numerical data manipulation.

Matplotlib & Seaborn: Data and image visualization.

Scikit-learn: Evaluation metrics (classification_report, confusion_matrix).​

Prerequisites
To run this notebook, ensure the libraries are installed:

bash
pip install tensorflow pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn
Model Architecture
The built neural network follows a classic sequential architecture:

Convolutional Layer 1: 32 filters, kernel (3,3), ReLU activation + Max Pooling (2,2).

Convolutional Layer 2: 64 filters, kernel (3,3), ReLU activation + Max Pooling (2,2).

Convolutional Layer 3: 64 filters, kernel (3,3), ReLU activation + Max Pooling (2,2).

Flatten: Flattening of feature maps.

Dense Layer (Fully Connected): 128 neurons, ReLU activation.

Dropout: Rate of 0.5 (for regularization).

Output Layer: 1 neuron, Sigmoid activation (binary classification).​

Compilation:

Optimizer: Adam

Loss Function: Binary Crossentropy

Metric: Accuracy​

How to Run
Download the dataset and organize the directories as expected by the script (train_path and test_path).

Open the notebook CNN-Classificacao_de_imagem_malaria.ipynb in Jupyter Notebook, JupyterLab, or Google Colab.

Adjust the data directory paths in the corresponding cell:

python
my_data_dir = 'path/to/your/directory'
Execute the cells sequentially to train and evaluate the model.​

Results
The notebook at the end displays:

Loss and accuracy graphs during training.

A confusion matrix comparing predictions with actual values.

A classification report with precision, recall, and f1-score.​
